---
date: 2023-11-23
tags: 
draft: false
---
My primary question in research centers on how technology reflects us. I believe that our reflection in technology reveals two contrasting images. Technology reflects the beauty and elegance of human solutions, showcasing our ingenuity. Yet it equally lays bare the limitations and flaws inherent in our solutions. My research over the past two years has centered on evaluating these double reflections, and they will continue to pose important questions for future exploration.

I conducted research under the supervision of Professor Thebault-Spieker, who I met through his class The Information Society. Through the coursework and office hour discussions, I learned that there exist more dimensions in understanding technological progress than simply the production of more technology. To see this lesson in practice, I joined Professor Thebault-Spieker’s project exploring how spatial technologies can contextualize road safety information to users. We used OpenStreetMap’s current, biased, and crowdsourced data to develop a safety-first routing algorithm, and sought to identify what new dimensions might be added to improve road safety predictions. My contributions to this project were threefold. First, I conducted a literature review of traffic engineering research on parameters relevant for safety such as road condition or precipitation. Second, I studied the OpenStreetMap API and constructed the spatial database for the project by merging data on OpenStreetMap with local reports of crashes. Third, and most importantly, I tried to solve how we could best deal with the technology's current limitations, and brainstormed improvements to the broader crowdsourcing community. Through this project, I learned that having more data was not a clear-cut solution to the problem of bias in the distribution of data. Existing geographic gaps would only be perpetuated by having more of it, and I realized that efforts to close the gap is a highly important dimension to the technological progress of OpenStreetMap.

Currently, I am exploring what role the dimension of rural identity plays in the use and non-use of user-generated content platforms. The project's focus on use and non-use was inspired by Satchell's 2009 paper, which suggests that studying the use of a certain technology requires a perspective shift away from seeing people as either current or potential users, and instead try to treat resistance of use as it is, and learn what it might mean for the technological artifact in question. The project is also influenced by Hardy's 2019 paper, which implores rural-HCI researchers to explore rural identities beyond geographical location, such as the use of words, concepts, and feelings that connect people to the rural. We are currently conducting semi-structured interviews with rural residents of Wisconsin, with preliminary results indicating a disparity between the sense of tribe and genuine connection found in these areas and the more hollow online interactions on UGC platforms. These digital engagements, often inevitable due to external relationships or business advertisements, contrast with the in-person dynamics typical in rural settings. This project has made clear to me that in consideration of populations usually unconsidered as the main users of a given technology, the definition of progress as providing more technology falls apart. In the case of rural communities, technology might be an alienating force that is more abrasive to connection than conducive, and there may be lessons from the ways of intimacy and community in rural communities that social networks could learn from.

In my research experience thus far, I have found a variety of motivations that make UGC platforms thrive. These platforms serve as a space for enthusiasts to share their interests or expertise, offer a collaborative environment for refining each other’s contributions, and provide valuable resources for both contributors and users. I believe that these motivations reflect our collective enthusiasm to document the contingent nature of our lives, making meaning of our lives as the world changes around us. If it were that contingency that is the spice of life, it is difficult to imagine that AI models will remain effective without them. This intuition has inspired several questions that I would like to answer in my future research.

I am curious about the effectiveness of real-time data to a user's experience of LLMs. Since models like GPT require data collection, preprocessing, training, testing, and refinement, there is a lag between the latest real-world information and training data. To mitigate this concern, services like Bing Chat allows models to traverse the internet and find more recent data, and Grok from xAI incorporates relevant tweets in its answers. My question is how such maneuvers change the experience of using LLMs—do people tangibly feel that, because these models are up-to-date with the contingency of our environment, they feel more true-to-life? How about the type of real-time data? Would use-cases and audiences of LLMs change as they are trained on "fast" data from X, and "slow" data from Wikipedia? If so, what are the characteristics of models trained on slower data, and models trained on faster data? Do such characteristics mirror the ways Wikipedians use "faster" modes of discussion such as the talk page, and "slower" modes of discussion such as article pages? And ultimately, does it in any way reflect better the real ways we talk and discuss information as humans?

In addition to external contingency, I am also curious about the internal contingencies that we employ in casual conversations. The way we weave irony, sarcasm, and "punch lines," which often deviate sharply from a joke's preceding narrative, challenges typical conversational patters. Yet, it's this very deviation that brings us joy through the essential human element of humor. I believe that humor isn't just meant for amusement; it can deeply change the ways we interact with conversational agents, ranging from applications in therapy, to simply providing companionship. Discussing the boundaries that preserve uniquely human experiences is crucial, but exploring these boundaries than rigidly maintaining them is something I am interested in challenging.